hey guys black-and-white video for a
black and white issue um I just got a
Skype call from fellow vegan activist
and he put to me the question if I were
standing in front of a room of 60 to 100
vegans what would I do with the
opportunity here in the town I'm living
in town where I'm renting an apartment
the town where I have a home and he was
asking me this because tomorrow he's
going to be in exactly that situation he
has the opportunity to give a lecture or
give a pitch to try to make something
positive happen in terms of getting
people motivated of getting people
organized so I want to reiterate first
and foremost this is a question of what
would you as a vegan say to a room of
other people who are already vegan and
the second thing I want to emphasize was
this made me immediately reflect wow
that's an opportunity that I've never
had so although I've made my pitch again
and again here on YouTube spoken to the
audience people here on YouTube I've put
out my own you know vegan manifesto I've
talked about questions of method and how
to get organized and someone I've never
had the opportunity make that kind of
pitch to remove vegans and there are
different reasons for that including the
fact that it seems like the main vegan
organizer here in Victoria actively
wants to exclude me and silence me and
I've now sort of confirmed that by
speaking to other people indirectly and
asking what's going on why can't I
attend these events why can't I
participate and so on so if that's how
it's gonna be that so it's gonna be and
as soon as I figure that out of course
then I also started getting in touch
with other vegan activist here who are
not so happy with the leadership of
Jordan right shirt and he want to make
something positive happen maybe I can
start putting together some events you
know with the counter-current of vehicle
vegans here who've already grown
disaffected
with the you know self-appointed
dictator for life of veganism in the
small town of Canada we'll see what
happens but nevertheless I've never
actually had this challenge the answer I
gave this guy via Skype call
he's a patreon supporter by the way
that's how I know him he sports me pays
$1 a month on patreon to make this
channel happen I appreciate and which
does indeed give me the opportunity to
come here on YouTube and talk to my my
small and highly cynical audience of
vegan aspiring activists
but I said to him look what I would say
in these circumstances won't surprise
you because you've already seen my
youtube channel I would put together a
pitch that starts by saying look here we
are in a room or 60 vegans over 100
vegans but as long as each one of us is
isolated we're very limited what we can
do and when I'm here to tell you is just
how much we can accomplish with a group
of just 30 people who are organized and
motivated I'm not asking for your money
I'm asking for your time and your
interest in getting involved I just saw
a video on lai vegans channel so most
you've probably never heard of lai vegan
I shared the link within patreon talking
with this video lady again as a video
talking about his attempt to Pastore his
involvement in a movement to pass new
laws reforms concerning the rights of
elephants in Pittsburgh and the video
involved for example advocacy and
lobbying at City Hall
concerning particular forms of cruelty
against elephants used in circuses and
zoos and they succeeded they've actually
gotten some new laws passed and close to
the start of this video he says he says
something very briefly like he says he's
very grateful to have been participating
with and involved with this group of
people who made this happen and he has a
photograph and I paused a count I forget
if there are 27 or 30 people in this
photograph but hey there are 30 people
in the same place at the same time
working together to make something
happen in politics so if I were giving
this pitch I might put up that very
example I might put up that image and
say hey here here are 30 people in
Pittsburgh who changed the law here are
30 people who changed the lives of a
handful of specific elephants sir I
don't know how many elephants there
aren't Pittsburgh it's not there are
millions of elephants living there
whether it's a few a few hundred or a
few dozen I can't say and of course they
also created a platform for advocacy and
engaging people in these issues to talk
about animal rights to talk about
veganism etc etc fundamental moral
in ecological issues that are at the
base of this movement I've heard of some
of that and I would put forward a series
of examples have to draw them out of a
hat of hey let's talk about Mothers
Against Drunk Driving let's talk about
how a group of people who care
passionate about an issue can form an
organization that's non-violence it's
not based on street protests it's based
on lobbying government public education
and outreach and that today has
representation coast-to-coast in school
classrooms incredibly powerful that they
do student education to try to convince
people to not drive drunk to not take
arrests involving alcohol tonight
not use alcohol responsibly or to avoid
using alcohol at all etc etc I think
their message is well-known with it be
summarizing it and by contrast here we
are as vegans and as long as each one of
us remains isolated every day in schools
across America or across the state or
across the city every day in schools
children are being taught that chicken
eggs are healthy and that cheese is
healthy and in the school cafeteria
they're being fed chicken eggs and
cheese sometimes for a profit sometimes
it's a kind of charity to feed students
and we don't have any kind of voice we
don't have any ability to dispute that
or lobby directly with a School Board
and we also don't have the opportunity
to educate the students and challenge
what's basically advertising and
propaganda that's telling them things
are healthy for them and safe for them
to eat that are neither safe nor healthy
right but if we get organized if we
become a little bit more like Mothers
Against Drunk Driving we could be a
powerful voice that of course to some
extent impacts the lives of animals but
to a much greater extent you know
influences the future transformations of
our culture changes human behavior
culturally and even legally and
legislatively so put together a bunch of
examples like this another one I like to
talk about is you know leather and the
fact that leather isn't just immoral it
has terrible ecological impacts and also
is terrible health impacts leather is
made modern leather is cured with a
chemical called chromium hexane if you
actually just have a closet full of
leather clothes believe it or not the
air pollution coming from that leather
is damaging your health it's damaging
your children's health and so on and we
can present some really scary
you know scientific facts about that now
in terms of starting a conversation with
meat eaters people have never heard
about veganism before it's completely
different to approach them and say hey
you know what I want to let you know
something you probably don't know did
you know leather actually has a negative
impact in your health having having a
leather couch or leather clothing in
your home is exposing you to chromium
vaccine and these other health damages
in terms of starting a conversation in
terms of a basis for whether it's
lobbying government or outreach in
public education
that's completely different from walking
up to a stranger on the street who's
wearing fur and telling them hey morally
you're a bad person because you're
you're wearing you're wearing foreign
public it's it's just different okay and
you could structure and outreach and
public education campaign and political
lobbying etc around this issue of
leather for example so this is my answer
to his question what would you do now if
you had the opportunity to make a pitch
this way to a roomful of sixty vegans a
roomful of 100 vegans and I had to
reflect I've never had that opportunity
but for those who've been watching this
YouTube channel for a long time it won't
be surprising to you I would probably
try to pick out some case studies and
some examples like that whether it's
something small and specific like hey
thirty people in Philadelphia managed to
pass cruelty legislation anti-cruelty
legislation to protect elephants or if
it's something larger like hey let's
look at some cases in India where the
whole city was declared vegetarian let's
look at cases where slaughterhouses were
shut down when you have a culture that
really you know embraces veganism or at
least vegetarianism one on some level
where it's possible to lobby for
profound change in that way or if you
try to pick out some issues that offer a
specific opportunity for our outreach in
between and you know what you're really
asking people to do at that first phase
is to give you their email give you
their email address or give you their
Facebook contact give you some way to
get in touch and keep in touch and to
start with that first faltering step
whether it's five people 15 people or
thirty people so that we can move beyond
the very
limited impact we can have as isolated
vegans of course if you're if you're an
isolated individual person with a vegan
diet that's great that's tremendously
morally positive but the potential we
have to make social change political
change cultural change for the long-term
to educate others and yes the impact
ultimately the lives and welfare of
specific animals the ecology of specific
river basins you know oceans etc that's
gonna come by taking those next few
steps that starts with me asking people
hey I'm not asking for your money I'm
asking for your time your attention your
email address and for us to try to get
organized to make something positive
that